README.md, before:

# BSTPP

## Using the whole program

### Prerequisites
- [cmake](https://cmake.org/) version 3.20 or higher is required for compiling
- [dear imgui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui) is used for graphical output. dear imgui is contained as git submodule, but it needs
- [glfw](https://www.glfw.org/) Can be installed using the following steps:
```
sudo apt-get install xorg-dev
sudo apt-get install libgl1-mesa-dev
git clone https://github.com/glfw/glfw.git
cd glfw && mkdir build && cd build
cmake -G "Unix Makefiles" ..
make
sudo make install
```
- [glew](https://github.com/nigels-com/glew) (can be installed by `sudo apt-get install libglew-dev`)
- [doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl/) This is optional for generating documentation.
- [Eigen3](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org/) Is used as an implementation for sparse matrices. (I'm using Eigen 3.4)
- [HiGHS](https://www.maths.ed.ac.uk/hall/HiGHS/#top)

### Building the software
```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make
```

### Running
To launch the program run:
`./<NameOfTheExecutable> <NumberOfNodesInTheGraph>`

Then you can switch modes via the mouse in the settings window or using these shortcuts:

key   | function
------|-------------
`ESC` | close application
`F3`  | toggle visibility of settings window
`R`   | recompute solution(s)
`T`   | switch display of approximation to next mode
`1`   | toggle drawing of BTSP approximation
`2`   | toggle drawing of BTSPP approximation
`3`   | toggle drawing of BTSVPP approximation
`4`   | toggle drawing of BTSP exact solution
`5`   | toggle drawing of BTSPP exact solution
`6`   | toggle drawing of TSP exact solution

## Using only the command line program

### Prerequisites
- [cmake](https://cmake.org/) version 3.20 or higher is required for compiling
- [doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl/) This is optional for generating documentation.
- [Eigen3](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org/) is used as an implementation for sparse matrices. (I'm using Eigen 3.4)
- [HiGHS](https://www.maths.ed.ac.uk/hall/HiGHS/#top)

For installation advice see prerequisites for the whole program.

### Building the software
```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -DVisualisation=Off ..
make
```

### Running
To run the application type:
`./<NameOfTheExecutable> <NumberOfNodesInTheGraph> <arg1> <arg2> ...`
Possible arguments are:

argument                              | effect
--------------------------------------|------------------
`-btsp`                               | approximates BTSP
`-btspp`                              | approximates BTSPP
`-btsp-e`                             | solves exact BTSP
`-btspp-e`                            | solves exact BTSPP
`-tsp-e`                              | solves exact TSP
`-seed> <int1> ... `                  | set a seed for random generation of graph
`-no-crossing`                        | only if `btsp-e` is set: set extra constraint, that solutions cannot contain crossings
`-logfile:=<filename>`                | specifies a file to write stats to
`-repetitions:=<numberOfRepetitions>` | specifies the number of repetitions
`-no-info`                            | suppress output of calculation information to console
`-no-seed`                            | suppress output of seed to console

Commit message:

add btsvpp for commandline program

README.md, after:

# BSTPP

This software contains the implementation of approximation algorithms for 3 variants of the bottleneck travelling salesman problem. Those are BTSP, BTSPP and BTSVPP.

## Using the whole program

The whole program includes the visualisation for examples on euclidean graphs.

### Prerequisites
- [cmake](https://cmake.org/) version 3.20 or higher is required for compiling
- [dear imgui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui) is used for graphical output. dear imgui is contained as git submodule, but it needs
- [glfw](https://www.glfw.org/) Can be installed using the following steps:
```
sudo apt-get install xorg-dev
sudo apt-get install libgl1-mesa-dev
git clone https://github.com/glfw/glfw.git
cd glfw && mkdir build && cd build
cmake -G "Unix Makefiles" ..
make
sudo make install
```
- [glew](https://github.com/nigels-com/glew) (can be installed by `sudo apt-get install libglew-dev`)
- [doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl/) This is optional for generating documentation.
- [Eigen3](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org/) Is used as an implementation for sparse matrices. (I'm using Eigen 3.4)
- [HiGHS](https://www.maths.ed.ac.uk/hall/HiGHS/#top)

### Building the software
```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make
```

### Running
To launch the program run:
`./<NameOfTheExecutable> <NumberOfNodesInTheGraph>`

Then you can switch modes via the mouse in the settings window or using these shortcuts:

key   | function
------|-------------
`ESC` | close application
`F3`  | toggle visibility of settings window
`R`   | recompute solution(s)
`T`   | switch display of approximation to next mode
`1`   | toggle drawing of BTSP approximation
`2`   | toggle drawing of BTSPP approximation
`3`   | toggle drawing of BTSVPP approximation
`4`   | toggle drawing of BTSP exact solution
`5`   | toggle drawing of BTSPP exact solution
`6`   | toggle drawing of TSP exact solution

## Using only the command line program

### Prerequisites
- [cmake](https://cmake.org/) version 3.20 or higher is required for compiling
- [doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl/) This is optional for generating documentation.
- [Eigen3](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org/) is used as an implementation for sparse matrices. (I'm using Eigen 3.4)
- [HiGHS](https://www.maths.ed.ac.uk/hall/HiGHS/#top)

For installation advice see prerequisites for the whole program.

### Building the software
```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -DVisualisation=Off ..
make
```

### Running
To run the application type:
`./<NameOfTheExecutable> <NumberOfNodesInTheGraph> <arg1> <arg2> ...`
Possible arguments are:

argument                              | effect
--------------------------------------|------------------
`-btsp`                               | approximates BTSP
`-btspp`                              | approximates BTSPP
`-btsvpp`                             | approximates BTSVPP
`-btsp-e`                             | solves exact BTSP
`-btspp-e`                            | solves exact BTSPP
`-tsp-e`                              | solves exact TSP
`-seed> <int1> ... `                  | set a seed for random generation of graph
`-no-crossing`                        | only if `btsp-e` is set: set extra constraint, that solutions cannot contain crossings
`-logfile:=<filename>`                | specifies a file to write stats to
`-repetitions:=<numberOfRepetitions>` | specifies the number of repetitions
`-no-info`                            | suppress output of calculation information to console
`-no-seed`                            | suppress output of seed to console
